content: update future-proofing page + add post-quantum cryptography subpage (#17946)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: public/content/roadmap/future-proofing/quantum-resistance/index.md

---
title: Post-quantum cryptography on Ethereum
description: How Ethereum is preparing for the post-quantum era, what is vulnerable, and what is being built to protect it.
lang: en
image: /images/roadmap/roadmap-future.png
alt: "Ethereum roadmap"
template: roadmap
summaryPoints:
  - Quantum computers will eventually threaten the cryptography Ethereum uses today

>   - The Ethereum Foundation has a dedicated team and a structured plan targeting 2029

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The Ethereum Foundation has a dedicated post-quantum research team, and a structured "Lean Ethereum" roadmap targeting 2029 for full post-quantum protection
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

  - Your funds are safe today and wallet software will guide you through future migration
---

Quantum computers will eventually be able to break the cryptographic methods that secure Ethereum and most other digital systems today. This page explains what that means, what is being done about it, and what you need to know.

## Why this matters {#why-this-matters}

Ethereum relies on several forms of [cryptography](/glossary/#cryptography) to keep the network secure and protect user funds. The most important are:

> - **Elliptic curve digital signature algorithm (ECDSA)**: Used to sign transactions. Your Ethereum account's security depends on this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Elliptic curve digital signature algorithm (ECDSA)**: The cryptography used to sign transactions. Your Ethereum account's security depends on this.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

- **BLS signatures**: Used by [validators](/glossary/#validator) to reach [consensus](/glossary/#consensus) on the state of the network.
- **KZG polynomial commitments**: Used for [data availability](/glossary/#data-availability) in Ethereum's scaling roadmap.
- **ZK-proof systems**: Used by rollups and other applications to verify computations offchain.

> All of these rely on mathematical problems that are hard for classical computers but could be solved efficiently by a sufficiently powerful quantum computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these rely on mathematical structures that are hard for classical computers but could be solved efficiently by a sufficiently powerful quantum computerusing Shor's algorithm.
```
[cite_start]All of these rely on mathematical structures, such as Abelian groups, that are hard for classical computers but can be solved efficiently by a quantum computer using [Shor's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shor%27s_algorithm).

Author: Applied, thank you.

> ### How close are quantum computers? {#how-close}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### When will quantum computers threaten Ethereum? {#when-will-quantum-computers-threaten-ethereum}
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

In March 2026, Google Quantum AI published research estimating that breaking 256-bit elliptic curve cryptography (the type Ethereum uses for account signatures) could require roughly 1,200 logical qubits. Previous estimates put this number much higher. Google has set a 2029 internal deadline for migrating its own systems to post-quantum cryptography.

> Current quantum hardware operates with a few thousand noisy physical qubits. Logical qubits (which correct for errors and perform reliable computation) require many physical qubits each. **The gap between current hardware and what is needed to break Ethereum's cryptography remains significant, but it is narrowing faster than many expected.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Current quantum hardware is far from this scale, operating with a few thousand noisy physical qubits. Logical qubits (which correct for errors and perform reliable computation) require many physical qubits each. **The gap between current hardware and what is needed to break Ethereum's cryptography remains significant, but it is narrowing faster than many expected.** Notably, the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) anticipates deprecating ECDSA by 2030 and disallowing it by 2035.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

> This is not an imminent threat. But cryptographic transitions take years, and Ethereum's security model is designed to last centuries. Preparing now is prudent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not an imminent threat. But cryptographic transitions take years, and Ethereum's security model is designed to last centuries. Ethereum's response is the [**Lean Ethereum** roadmap](https://leanroadmap.org/), a deliberate, multi-year mission to rebuild Ethereum around primitives that will survive any cryptographic threat.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

> ## The four vulnerable areas {#four-vulnerable-areas}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Four areas vulnerable to quantum attack {#four-vulnerable-areas}
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

> In February 2026, Vitalik Buterin published a roadmap identifying four distinct areas of Ethereum's cryptography that need post-quantum upgrades. Each has different challenges and different solution paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In February 2026, Vitalik Buterin [published a roadmap](https://x.com/VitalikButerin/status/2027075026378543132) identifying four distinct areas of Ethereum's cryptography that need post-quantum upgrades. Each has different challenges and different solution paths.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

### 1. Consensus-layer BLS signatures {#consensus-bls}

**What it does**: Ethereum's [proof-of-stake](/glossary/#pos) protocol uses BLS signatures to aggregate votes from hundreds of thousands of validators. BLS allows many signatures to be combined into one, keeping the network efficient.

**Why it is vulnerable**: BLS signatures rely on elliptic curve pairings, which a quantum computer could break.

> **The approach**: The Ethereum Foundation is developing two complementary tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The approach**: The Lean Consensus roadmap includes developing two complementary tools:
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

> - **leanXMSS**: A hash-based signature scheme for validators. Hash-based signatures are considered quantum-safe because they rely only on the security of hash functions, which quantum computers weaken but do not break.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **leanXMSS**: Ethereum will replace BLS signatures with leanXMSS, a hash-based signature scheme for validators. Hash-based signatures are considered quantum-safe because they rely only on the security of hash functions, which quantum computers weaken but do not break.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

> - **leanVM**: A minimal zkVM (zero-knowledge virtual machine) for SNARK-based signature aggregation. This preserves the efficiency benefits of combining many signatures into one, even after switching to quantum-safe schemes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **leanVM**: A minimal zkVM (zero-knowledge virtual machine) for SNARK-based signature aggregation. Because hash-based signatures are significantly larger (roughly 3,000 bytes compared to 96 bytes for BLS), switching to leanXMSS would produce significantly more data per slot. To solve this, leanVM acts as an aggregation engine, compressing the data by 250x. This preserves the efficiency benefits of combining many signatures into one, even after switching to quantum-safe schemes.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

**Why it is vulnerable**: KZG commitments rely on elliptic curve pairings, the same mathematical structure that quantum computers can attack.

**Current mitigation**: KZG commitments use a "trusted setup" where many participants contributed randomness. As long as at least one participant was honest and discarded their secret, the setup is secure, even against quantum computers attempting to reverse-engineer it after the fact.

**Long-term solution**: Replace KZG with a quantum-safe commitment scheme. The two leading candidates are:
- **STARK-based commitments**: Rely on hash functions rather than elliptic curves. Already used in some ZK-rollups.
- **Lattice-based commitments**: Rely on the hardness of lattice problems, which are believed to be quantum-resistant.

Both approaches are still being researched for efficiency and practicality at Ethereum's scale.

### 3. Account signatures: ECDSA {#eoa-signatures}

**What it does**: Every standard Ethereum account (externally owned account, or [EOA](/glossary/#eoa)) uses ECDSA on the secp256k1 curve to sign transactions. This is what protects your funds.

> **Why it is vulnerable**: A quantum computer could derive a private key from a public key. For accounts that have sent at least one transaction, the public key is exposed onchain, making them a potential target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Why it is vulnerable**: For any account that has sent a transaction, the public key is exposed onchain. A quantum computer could derive the private key from this exposed public key data. 
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

**Important nuance**: Accounts that have only received ether and never sent a transaction have not exposed their public key. Only the address (a hash of the public key) is visible, which provides some additional protection.

**The approach**: Rather than a single protocol-wide migration, Ethereum plans to use [account abstraction](/roadmap/account-abstraction/) (specifically EIP-8141, being considered for Hegotá in second half of 2026) to give users **signature agility**. Individual accounts could switch to a post-quantum signature scheme without waiting for the entire protocol to change.

This is a pragmatic approach. Users and wallets that want post-quantum protection early can adopt it voluntarily, while the broader migration happens over time.

### 4. Application-layer ZK-proofs {#zk-proofs}

**What it does**: Zero-knowledge proof systems are used by L2 rollups and other applications to verify computations without revealing underlying data.

**Why it is vulnerable**: Many popular ZK-proof systems (SNARKs using elliptic curve pairings) rely on quantum-vulnerable assumptions.

> **The approach**: STARKs, which rely on hash functions rather than elliptic curves, are already quantum-resistant and are used by several rollups. The transition for this layer is partly happening already through natural ecosystem adoption of STARK-based systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The approach**: STARKs, which rely on hash functions rather than elliptic curves, are already quantum-resistant and are used by several rollups. Natural ecosystem adoption of STARK-based systems is already providing post-quantum security at the application layer. 
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

## NIST standards {#nist-standards}

> In August 2024, the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) finalized three post-quantum cryptography standards. These matter because they give the entire technology industry, including Ethereum, a shared set of vetted algorithms to build on rather than each project inventing its own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In August 2024, the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) [finalized three post-quantum cryptography standards](https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2024/08/nist-releases-first-3-finalized-post-quantum-encryption-standards). These matter because they give the entire technology industry, including Ethereum, a shared set of vetted algorithms to build on rather than each project inventing its own.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

| Standard | Name | Type | Use case |
|----------|------|------|----------|
| FIPS 203 | ML-KEM | Lattice-based | Key encapsulation (key exchange) |
| FIPS 204 | ML-DSA (Dilithium) | Lattice-based | Digital signatures |
| FIPS 205 | SLH-DSA (SPHINCS+) | Hash-based | Digital signatures |

These standards provide a foundation for the broader industry's post-quantum transition. Ethereum's work builds on and extends these, with particular focus on the unique challenges of a decentralized network where efficiency and aggregation matter.

## The Ethereum Foundation's approach {#ef-approach}

The Ethereum Foundation formed a dedicated Post-Quantum Security team in January 2026, led by Thomas Coratger. The team's work is tracked publicly at [pq.ethereum.org](https://pq.ethereum.org).

### Current activity (as of April 2026) {#current-activity}

- **Weekly interop devnets**: More than 10 client teams participate in regular post-quantum interoperability testing, including Lighthouse, Grandine, Zeam, Ream Labs, and PierTwo.
- **Poseidon Prize**: A $1 million research prize targeting improvements in hash-based cryptographic primitives.

> - **Open-source implementations**: leanXMSS, leanVM, leanSpec (Python), leanSig (Rust), and leanMultisig are all available under the leanEthereum GitHub organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Open-source implementations**: leanXMSS, leanVM, leanSpec (Python), leanSig (Rust), and leanMultisig are all available under the [leanEthereum GitHub organization](https://github.com/leanEthereum).
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

> - **2nd Annual PQ Research Retreat**: Planned for 9-Oct-2026 to 12-Oct-2026 in Cambridge, UK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **2nd Annual PQ Research Retreat**: Planned for 9-Oct-2026 to 12-Oct-2026 in Cambridge, UK.
- **NIST Alignment**: Ethereum's work builds upon the post-quantum cryptography standards finalized by NIST in August 2024 (such as ML-KEM, ML-DSA, and SLH-DSA).
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

### Migration milestones {#migration-milestones}

The team has outlined a series of protocol upgrades to incrementally introduce post-quantum cryptography into Ethereum. These are planning milestones, not guaranteed commitments. Names and ordering may change.

| Milestone | What it introduces |
|-----------|--------------------|
| I* | PQ key registry. Validators can register post-quantum public keys alongside existing BLS keys. |
| J* | PQ signature verification precompiles. Smart contracts and wallets can verify PQ signatures natively. |
| L* | PQ attestations and real-time consensus-layer proofs via leanVM. Validators begin using PQ signatures for consensus. |
| M* | Full PQ signature aggregation and PQ-safe blob commitments. |

> **Target**: Core post-quantum infrastructure in place by approximately 2029. Full execution-layer and ecosystem migration extends beyond that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Target**: The structured fork milestones target the completion of core post-quantum infrastructure by approximately 2029.  Full execution-layer and ecosystem migration extends beyond that.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

## What do users need to do? {#what-users-need-to-do}

**Right now: nothing.** Your funds are safe. No quantum computer today can threaten Ethereum's cryptography.

> **In the future**: Once post-quantum signature schemes are available on Ethereum (expected to begin with EIP-8141), you will want to migrate your account to quantum-safe signatures. Wallet software will guide you through this transition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**In the future**: Once post-quantum signature schemes are widely supported on Ethereum (expected following the Hegota hard fork and implementation of EIP-8141), you will want to migrate your account to quantum-safe signatures. Wallet software will guide you through this transition.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

Eventually, yes. Once post-quantum signature schemes are available on Ethereum, users will want to migrate their accounts. Wallet software will likely handle this transition for you. For now, there is nothing you need to do. When action is needed, the Ethereum community and wallet developers will provide clear guidance and tools.

</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="What about my tokens, NFTs, and DeFi positions?" eventCategory="/roadmap/future-proofing/quantum-resistance" eventName="clicked what about tokens NFTs DeFi?">

Assets on Ethereum are controlled by account signatures. Once your account is migrated to a quantum-safe signature scheme, everything in that account is protected. You do not need to migrate each asset individually. Smart contracts that hold funds (like DeFi protocols) may need their own upgrades depending on what cryptographic primitives they use internally.

</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="Is Ethereum behind other blockchains on this?" eventCategory="/roadmap/future-proofing/quantum-resistance" eventName="clicked is Ethereum behind?">

> Ethereum has one of the most structured post-quantum programs of any blockchain: a dedicated team, funded research, weekly devnets, and a published migration roadmap. No blockchain has completed a full post-quantum transition yet. According to Ethereum Foundation estimates, Ethereum's quantum-vulnerable dormant fund exposure is approximately 0.1%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. Ethereum has one of the most structured post-quantum programs of any blockchain: a dedicated team, funded research, weekly devnets, and a published migration roadmap, treating quantum computing as a first-class design constraint. No blockchain has completed a full post-quantum transition yet. According to Ethereum Foundation estimates, Ethereum's quantum-vulnerable dormant fund exposure is approximately 0.1%, drastically lower than other major blockchain networks.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="What is 'harvest now, decrypt later'?" eventCategory="/roadmap/future-proofing/quantum-resistance" eventName="clicked what is harvest now decrypt later?">

"Harvest now, decrypt later" is an attack where someone records encrypted data or exposed public keys today, then breaks the encryption later once a powerful enough quantum computer exists. For Ethereum, this is most relevant to accounts whose public keys are already exposed onchain (any account that has sent a transaction). This is one reason the community treats post-quantum migration as time-sensitive even though the quantum threat is not yet immediate.

</ExpandableCard>

## Further reading {#further-reading}

> - [pq.ethereum.org](https://pq.ethereum.org) - _Ethereum Foundation_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [pq.ethereum.org](https://pq.ethereum.org) - _Ethereum Foundation_
- - [Post-Quantum Cryptography Project](https://pse.dev/projects/post-quantum-cryptography) - _Privacy Stewards of Ethereum (PSE)_
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

- [NIST Post-Quantum Cryptography standards](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/post-quantum-cryptography) - _NIST_
- [Safeguarding cryptocurrency by disclosing quantum vulnerabilities responsibly](https://research.google/blog/safeguarding-cryptocurrency-by-disclosing-quantum-vulnerabilities-responsibly/) - _Google Quantum AI_
- [Quantum frontiers may be closer than they appear](https://blog.google/innovation-and-ai/technology/safety-security/cryptography-migration-timeline/) - _Google_

> - [KZG and trusted setups](/roadmap/danksharding/#what-is-kzg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [KZG and trusted setups](/roadmap/danksharding/#what-is-kzg)
- [Lean Week Cambridge (2025) leanVM + PQ workshop resources](https://github.com/leanEthereum/pm/blob/main/workshops-and-interops/2025/lean-week-cambridge/index.md) - _Lean Ethereum_
- [PQ Transaction Signatures ACD Breakout Calls](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJqWcTqh_zKEOum3uR0odkH59fmGUYuZB) - _Ethereum Foundation_
- [PQ Interop ACD Breakout Calls](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJqWcTqh_zKF_Q9HNXBLW_AtktsjToTIu) - _Ethereum Foundation_
- [Lean Ethereum & Post-Quantum Security YouTube Playlist](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJqWcTqh_zKGGuO_q1dgYLsfUoX1sNhWM) - _Ethereum Foundation_
- [Panel interview post-quantum resistance](https://youtu.be/5DRDjeMmOPw) - _Bankless Podcast_
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

- [Account abstraction on Ethereum](/roadmap/account-abstraction/)

> - [strawmap.org](https://strawmap.org/) - _EF Architecture_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [strawmap.org](https://strawmap.org/) - _EF Architecture_
- [Superpositioned: Analysis of the Quantum Computing Industry](https://www.superpositioned.co/) - _Saneel Sreeni_

```

Author: Applied, thank you.

---
title: Post-quantum cryptography on Ethereum
description: How Ethereum is preparing for the post-quantum era, what is vulnerable, and what is being built to protect it.
lang: en
image: /images/roadmap/roadmap-future.png
alt: "Ethereum roadmap"
template: roadmap
summaryPoints:
  - Quantum computers will eventually threaten the cryptography Ethereum uses today
  - The Ethereum Foundation has a dedicated team and a structured plan targeting 2029
  - Your funds are safe today and wallet software will guide you through future migration
---

# Post-quantum cryptography on Ethereum {#post-quantum-cryptography}

> 

Reviewer 2: The `roadmap` template renders the frontmatter `title` as an h1. This explicit heading creates a duplicate h1 on the rendered page. Remove it.

```suggestion
```

Author: Done. Removed the duplicate h1.

> Quantum computers will eventually be able to break the cryptographic methods that secure Ethereum and most other digital systems today. This page explains what that means, what is being done about it, and what you need to know.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quantum computers will eventually be able to break the cryptographic methods that secure Ethereum and most other digital systems today. This page explains what that means, how the network is proactively developing improvements to mitigate this risk, and what you need to know.
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

> ## Why this matters {#why-this-matters}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why post-quantum cryptography matters {#why-post-quantum-matters}
```

Author: Applied, thank you.

Ethereum relies on several forms of [cryptography](/glossary/#cryptography) to keep the network secure and protect user funds. The most important are:

> - **Elliptic curve cryptography (ECDSA)**: Used to sign transactions. Your Ethereum account's security depends on this.

Reviewer 2: Soft suggestion: ECDSA is referenced elsewhere on this page without expansion. Either expand it here at first use, or add the full name at the next usage -- author's call on which reads better.

```suggestion
- **Elliptic curve cryptography (ECDSA)**: The elliptic curve digital signature algorithm is used to sign transactions. Your Ethereum account's security depends on this.
```

Author: Done. Expanded to "Elliptic curve digital signature algorithm (ECDSA)" at first use.

- **KZG polynomial commitments**: Used for [data availability](/glossary/#data-availability) in Ethereum's scaling roadmap.
- **ZK-proof systems**: Used by rollups and other applications to verify computations offchain.

All of these rely on mathematical problems that are hard for classical computers but could be solved efficiently by a sufficiently powerful quantum computer.

### How close are quantum computers? {#how-close}

In March 2026, Google Quantum AI published research estimating that breaking 256-bit elliptic curve cryptography (the type Ethereum uses for account signatures) could require roughly 1,200 logical qubits. Previous estimates put this number much higher. Google has set a 2029 internal deadline for migrating its own systems to post-quantum cryptography.

Current quantum hardware operates with a few thousand noisy physical qubits. Logical qubits (which correct for errors and perform reliable computation) require many physical qubits each. **The gap between current hardware and what is needed to break Ethereum's cryptography remains significant, but it is narrowing faster than many expected.**

> This is not an imminent threat. But cryptographic transitions take years, and Ethereum's security model is designed to last decades. Preparing now is prudent.

Reviewer 2: Ethereum is being built to be secure for centuries, not just decades -- this language is used elsewhere on the site and in EF communications.

```suggestion
This is not an imminent threat. But cryptographic transitions take years, and Ethereum's security model is designed to last centuries. Preparing now is prudent.
```

Author: Done. Changed to "centuries."
